# Strawberry Fair Website

## Overview

This is source code for the Cambridge Strawberry Fair website. 

This frontend is a static site generated by [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/). Content is managed via [NetlifyCMS](https://www.netlifycms.org/).

## Local Development Setup

Prerequisites:
* Node v12.13 or higher
* npm 6.13.0 or higher
* gatsby cli (`npm install -g gatsby-cli`)

Checkout the source code, then create a file called `.env` in the `frontend` folder of the repository, which makes available your Cloudinary cloud name, API key and API secret in the following format:

```
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME={your cloud name}
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY={your API key}
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET={your API secret}
```

Then, run the following from this directory:
1. `npm ci`
2. `npm start`

Gatsby will build and run the site in develop mode. When complete, the site will be available at `localhost:8000`.

## CMS Local Running

You access the CMS by visiting `localhost:8000/admin`. If the CMS settings in the branch you are working on are set to use git-gateway,
you will need to log in using Netlify Identity. The details for this login are pinned in the Slack channel.

### Read-only local CMS

If you are running locally and you want to look at the CMS _and not change anything_, you will be prompted to enter the site's URL.
This is https://strawberry-fair.netlify.com/. If you only want to look at the CMS, this will be fine, but if you edit anything
it will push directly to the production branch.

### Edit-enabled local CMS

If you are running locally and you need to access the CMS for editing purposes, go into `static/admin/config.yml` and change

```
backend:
  name: git-gateway
  branch: production
  accept_roles:
    - admin
    - content
```

to

```
backend:
  name: github
  repo: Softwire/strawberry-fair
  branch: [ YOUR BRANCH HERE ]
```

ensuring you include the name of the branch you're working on.

**_Make sure you change it back before merging anything back into master._**

This will push any changes you make to `origin/[your branch]`, so you may want to run `git pull` after making any edits here to ensure your local copy stays up to date.

## PropTypes

React component property type checking has been implemented, and ESLint is set up to get cross at you if you don't implement it for any new components you write.

For guidance on how to do this, check the pre-existing code, and [this website](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types) for the allowable types. In short, you create an Object (`YourComponent.propTypes = {...}`) with a key for each property, whose value is a function that validates the type.

If you're not sure what type to make something because you're passing it off to a component you're not familiar with, simply pass the relevant propType _of that component_ to the new propType.

For example, if your component looks like:

```jsx
export const ParentComponent = ({title, passMeDown}) => (
  <React.Fragment>
    <h1>{title}</h1>
    <ChildComponent passMeDown={passMeDown}>
  </React.Fragment>
)
```

then, as long as `ChildComponent` has propTypes set up, you can re-use the validator:

```jsx
ParentComponent.propTypes = {
  title: PropTypes.node,  // Generic term for a renderable object - string, number, or JSX fragment
  passMeDown: ChildComponent.propTypes.passMeDown  // Reusing the child's validator function
}
```

## GraphQL

Gatsby uses [GraphQL](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/graphql-api/) to query the markdown files in `frontend/src/pages` and populate the website.
(There are some pretty good primers [here](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/graphql-concepts/) and [here](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/why-gatsby-uses-graphql/).)

It would be a little frustrating to write the graphql queries by trial and error—especially since you need to rebuild the whole site after changing them—but luckily Gatsby
makes available an interactive graphql query tester at `localhost:8000/__graphql` while the site is running.

## CMS Editorial Workflow

When editing the website via CMS, new changes can be marked as "draft", "in review" or "ready" for deployment using the "Set status" button.

These changes can then be reviewed by all CMS users via the "Workflow" tab.

Changes will only go live when they are "published".

Behind the scenes, Netlify editorial actions automatically perform git actions as follows:

| Netlify        | Git                                                    |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Save draft     | Commits to a new branch and opens a pull request       |
| Edit draft     | Pushes another commit to the draft branch/pull request |
| Publish draft  | Merges pull request and deletes branch                 |

### Adding Google Forms via CMS:
    To add a Google Form via CMS follow these steps:
      1. Open the form on Google Forms
      2. Click send on the top right corner
      3. Select the "Send via <>" option.
      4. Click "copy" on the bottom left corner.
      5. On a new tab, go to `localhost:8000/admin`
      6. Create a new Form page
      7. Paste into the "Form" box
      8. Fill in the remaining boxes.
      9. Click "Publish" on the top right corner.

      Alternatively, in step 4 you can choose to copy the URL only, instead of the whole HTML element.

### Integration with Cloudinary

Images uploaded in the CMS are hosted on Cloudinary. The API credentials can be found at the top of the dashboard after logging into Cloudinary.com.

## Testing

To run unit tests, use: `npm run test:unit`.
To run end-to-end tests, use: `npm run test:e2e`.
To run all tests, use `npm run test`.

## Other details

### Contact form submission
At present, our contact form is linked to the google forms page of one of the strawberry fair dev team members.

You can view the [responses](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12WFJgdrbU3uuVsoKjwkTZZoXQzxMclwNHiSUEt75COY/edit?usp=sharing) or the [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1YMmo2-upSKsRMEq8Vo5zJ_9S4gRGnFpfXvwUMRTRazo/edit?usp=sharing), but do not change the form itself without prior permission.
