{"type":"PR","pr":{"number":306,"head":"e42c7d2288bce5c9b15e73a6c0b445c9fec076cf"},"user":"Ian R","status":"draft","branch":"cms/2021-11-09-sag-feedback-site-design-discussion-and-agreement","collection":"events","title":"SAG Feedback / Site Design Discussion and Agreement","description":"No Description!","objects":{"entry":{"path":"frontend/src/pages/events/2021-11-09-sag-feedback-site-design-discussion-and-agreement.md","sha":"fbcf5307b93bd46432bd6174971f92c8023d04ee"},"files":[]},"timeStamp":"2021-11-09T21:52:01.726Z"}